New components remote.kubernetes.secret and remote.kubernetes.configmap (#4854)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/remote.kubernetes.configmap.md

---

> canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/remote.http/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/remote.kubernetes.configmap/
```

title: remote.kubernetes.configmap
---

> # remote.http

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# remote.kubernetes.configmap
```

> `remote.kubernetes.configmap` reads a ConfigMap from the kubernetes API server, and exposes it's data for other components to consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`remote.kubernetes.configmap` reads a ConfigMap from the Kubernetes API server and exposes its data for other components to consume.
```

> This can be useful anytime the agent needs data from a ConfigMap that is not mounted to the Grafana Agent pod directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be useful anytime the agent needs data from a ConfigMap that is not directly mounted to the Grafana Agent pod.
```

## Usage

```river
remote.kubernetes.configmap "LABEL" {
  namespace = "NAMESPACE_OF_CONFIGMAP"
  name = "NAME_OF_CONFIGMAP"
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `namespace` | `string` | Kubernetes namespace containing the desired ConfigMap. | | yes
> `name` | `string` | Name of the kubernetes ConfigMap | | yes
> `poll_frequency` | `duration` | Frequency to poll the kubernetes API. | `"1m"` | no
> `poll_timeout` | `duration` | Timeout when polling the kubernetes API.. | `"15s"` | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`namespace` | `string` | Kubernetes namespace containing the desired ConfigMap. | | yes
`name` | `string` | Name of the Kubernetes ConfigMap | | yes
`poll_frequency` | `duration` | Frequency to poll the Kubernetes API. | `"1m"` | no
`poll_timeout` | `duration` | Timeout when polling the Kubernetes API. | `"15s"` | no
```

> When this component performs a poll operation, it requests the ConfigMap data from the kubernetes API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When this component performs a poll operation, it requests the ConfigMap data from the Kubernetes API. 
```

A poll is triggered by the following:

* When the component first loads.
* Every time the component's arguments get re-evaluated.
* At the frequency specified by the `poll_frequency` argument.

Any error while polling will mark the component as unhealthy. After

> a successful poll, all data will be exported with the same field names as the source ConfigMap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a successful poll, all data is exported with the same field names as the source ConfigMap.
```

## Blocks

> The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `remote.http`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `remote.kubernetes.configmap`:
```

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------
client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to find Probes. | no
client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic authentication to the Kubernetes API. | no
client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the Kubernetes API. | no
client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the Kubernetes API. | no
client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no
client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no

> The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
> basic_auth` refers to an `basic_auth` block defined inside a `client` block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client > basic_auth`
refers to a `basic_auth` block defined inside a `client` block.
```

[client]: #client-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block

### client block

The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to discover Probes. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
configuration with the service account of the running Grafana Agent pod is
used.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`api_server` | `string` | URL of the Kubernetes API server. | | no
`kubeconfig_file` | `string` | Path of the `kubeconfig` file to use for connecting to Kubernetes. | | no
`bearer_token_file` | `string` | File containing a bearer token to authenticate with. | | no
`proxy_url` | `string` | HTTP proxy to proxy requests through. | | no
`follow_redirects` | `bool` | Whether redirects returned by the server should be followed. | `true` | no
`enable_http2` | `bool` | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests. | `true` | no

>  At most one of the following can be provided:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 At most, one of the following can be provided:
```

 - [`authorization` block][authorization].
 - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

### basic_auth block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`data` | `map(string)` | Data from the ConfigMap obtained from kubernetes.

The `data` field contains a mapping from field names to values. 

## Component health

Instances of `remote.kubernetes.configmap` report as healthy if the most recent attempt to poll the kubernetes API succeeds.

## Debug information

`remote.kubernetes.configmap` does not expose any component-specific debug information.

### Debug metrics

`remote.kubernetes.configmap` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Example

> This example reads a Secret and a ConfigMap from kubernetes and uses them to supply remote-write credentials.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example reads a Secret and a ConfigMap from Kubernetes and uses them to supply remote-write credentials.
```
